>> Jen: If we take a look at our
text up here in our web page.
What do you think
the function of that text is?
Describe it if you were, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: An introduction?
>> Jen: It's kind of an introduction.
And those are two what's?
>> Speaker 2: Paragraphs.
>> Jen: They are paragraphs, aren't they?
They're paragraphs,
we have a tag for that, okay?
So we need to mark this
up with the right tag.
So we're gonna go ahead and
we're gonna put in the tag and
that tag is called P, okay?
P for paragraph, so the paragraph starts
with the P, in the angle brackets,
those angle brackets are on your keyboard.
In my case they're next to the letter M,
and the question mark down
there on the bottom row, and not to hit
the shift key in order to get them.
So that's paragraph,
and then you close it.
It's called closing a tag with the slash
sign in front of the paragraph
at the end, okay?
So as we put this in, our coded editor is
actually being very nice in helping us.
You see how it gives us
both the opening and
the closing tag together,
right next to each other?
Because, normally the way we'd write
this is we'd actually put in the tag and
then we'd write our text,
in which case this would be nicely placed.
But since we already wrote our text,
now what we're gonna need to do is we're
gonna need to move our tags around.
So that they properly go around
our code there, did it work?
Everybody good?
Okay, go ahead and
save your page and refresh.
>> Jen: Now, I just said HTML stands for
the Hypertext Markup Language.
It stands for identifying
elements of our document, right?
So why did my browser put
a space in between here so
it looks like two paragraphs?
Anybody have any idea, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: It's because we
put separate tags on them?
>> Jen: It's a great idea.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Jen: But no, actually not.
There's nothing in the world that says
the paragraphs should look this way.
That's 16 pixel size times new roman font,
because engineers
picked the ugliest version of fonts
that they can possibly pick, all right?
And it was the engineers who decided
that this is the separation of
the distance between these two lines.
And in fact,
your web browser has a style sheet of its
own, it's your browser's style sheet.
And so the formatting, formatting
that we see here in our web browser is
a figment your browser's imagination.
Okay, the actual HTML itself has no
formatting associated with it, but
this is what your browser thinks
that it should look like.
>> Speaker 4: Is it gonna put that space
only at the bottom of the paragraph or
at the top and the bottom?
>> Jen: It puts the space at the top and
the bottom of the paragraph which is,
we actually have, it's hard to see
here because on the projector, but
maybe on the screen in front of you,
you can see a little bit of space between.
That bar at the top of the page and
the rest of it, that little bit of space,
that's part of the paragraph,
great question, okay.
You've learned your first tag, you've
built your first web page, great job.
>> Speaker 2: Yay.
>> Jen: Yay.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Jen: Every page needs a title,
doesn't it?
Okay, so let's go ahead and
put in a title,
and there is a tag for that too.
This is the heading tag and
there are six of these.
The heading tag is h one, okay.
And of course there's h two,
h three, h four, h five, h six, and
we can put up here, All About Me,
because it's always all about me, right?
Save that, refresh that in your browser.
Once again, the absolute
ugliest possible text possible.
It's the way we roll, good.
How about some of the things?
I'm going to make a list.
Okay, so there's couple kinds of lists.
The one we're gonna look at first
is this one, which is ULUL.
Anyone wanna take a guess
of what that stands for?
>> Speaker 5: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jen: An ordered list, okay?
In other words, this is a list
of stuff in no particular order.
You could take all of this stuff and you
could throw it up in the air and it comes
down and you pick it up again, and it
doesn't matter what order it's on, right?
It's not like say, a list of directions
and instructions in which case it matters,
what's first, what's second,
what's third, okay.
Anyone want to take a guess
at what that's called?
>> Speaker 4: Ordered list?
>> Jen: An ordered list.
>> Speaker 4: [LAUGH]
>> Jen: And guess what the tag is called?
>> Jen: Yeah, we're really lucky and
it's in English speakers for HTML.
Yeah, we're really lucky.
Okay, so this indicates that
this is going to be a list,
inside of this we're going to have a what?
>> Speaker 2: A list item?
>> Jen: A list item, L-I, a list item.
Playing music, okay.
So that's one of my hobbies.
And maybe I should actually start
this off with a heading, right?
Anyone wanna take a guess what
heading tag I should use to say?
I'm gonna say something
like my list of hobbies?
What should I use?
>> Speaker 6: H two?
>> Jen: H two, yeah,
because I already have h one, right?
This is further down on the page.
H one is the most important thing,
so it's the big one at the top.
There's only one of them,
typically, on a web page.
There are some rules that may
change that a little bit, but for
your purposes there's only one on the page
and we can then go into the next heading.
This is H2.
My fine hobbies.
Okay, so now I've got a UL,
and I've got an LI playing
music, hiking,
travel,
>> Jen: Like I said,
it's a very short list.
>> Jen: Teaching, whoops, LI,
>> Jen: Teaching,
>> Jen: Okay, and
when you refresh the page, you should
see something like this, how's that?